Add pages for URLPattern API (#8734)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/urlpattern/index.md

---
title: URLPattern
slug: Web/API/URLPattern
tags:
  - API
  - Interface
  - Reference
  - URLPattern
  - URLPattern API
  - Web
  - Polyfill
  - Experimental
browser-compat: api.URLPattern
---

{{APIRef("URLPattern API")}}

> The **`URLPattern`** interface matches URLs or parts of URLs against a pattern.

Author: I don't think so. Contacts picker is not centralised in a single interface like URLPattern is.

> The **`URLPattern`** interface matches URLs or parts of URLs against a pattern.

Author: I retract that statement - I'll add an overview page, because the URLPattern syntax will eventually also be used in service workers.

that are explained below, but they can be overwritten.

```js
// A pattern matching some fixed text
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/books' });
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books')); // true
console.log(pattern.exec('https://example.com/books').pathname.groups); // {}

// A pattern matching with a named group
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/books/:id' });
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/123')); // true
console.log(pattern.exec('https://example.com/books/123').pathname.groups); // { id: '123' }
```

### Segment wildcard

By default, a group matching inside the `pathname` part of the URL will match
all characters but the forward slash (`/`). In the `hostname` part, the group
will match all characters except the dot (`.`). In all other parts, the group
will match all characters. The segment wildcard is non-greedy, meaning that it
will match the shortest possible string.

### Regex matchers

Instead of using the default match rules for a group, a regex can be specified
per group. This regex defines the matching rules for the group. Below is an
example of a regex matcher on a named group that constrains the group to only

> match if it contains one or more digits:

Author: This does not make sense I think. The meaning is changed.

console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/book')); // true
console.log(pattern.exec('https://example.com/books').pathname.groups); // {}

// A group delimiter without a modifier
const pattern = new URLPattern('/book{s}', 'https://example.com');
console.log(pattern.pathname); // /books
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/book')); // false

// A group delimiter containing a capturing group
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/blog/:id(\\d+){-:title}?' });
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/blog/123-my-blog')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/blog/123')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/blog/my-blog')); // false
```

### Automatic group prefixing in pathnames

In patterns that match against the `pathname` part of a URL, groups get an
automatic slash (`/`) prefix added if the group definition is preceded by a
slash (`/`). This is useful for groups with modifiers, as it allows for
repeating groups to work as expected.

> If you do not want this automatic prefixing, you can disable it by surrounding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want automatic prefixing, you can disable it by surrounding
```

> the group with a group delimiters (`{}`). Group delimiters do not have automatic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the it with a group delimiters (`{}`). Group delimiters do not have automatic
```

console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/')); // false

// A pattern with a repeating group, preceded by a slash
const pattern = new URLPattern('/books/:id+', 'https://example.com');
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/123')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/123/456')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/123/')); // false
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/123/456/')); // false

// Segment prefixing does not occur outside of pathname patterns
const pattern = new URLPattern({ hash: '/books/:id?' });
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com#/books/123')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com#/books')); // false
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com#/books/')); // true

// Disabling segment prefixing for a group using a group delimiter
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/books/{:id}?' });
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/123')); // true
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books')); // false
console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/books/')); // true
```

> ### Wildcard token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Wildcard tokens
```

> A shorthand for an unamed capturing group that matches all characters zero or
> more times is provided by the wildcard token (`*`). This can be can be placed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wildcard token (`*`) is a shorthand for an unnamed capturing group that
matches all characters zero or more times. You can place this
```

## Examples

### Filter on a specific URL component

The following example shows how a `URLPattern` filters a specific URL component.
When the `URLPattern()` constructor is called with a structured object of
component patterns any missing components default to the `*` wildcard value.

```js
// Construct a URLPattern that matches a specific domain and its subdomains.
// All other URL components default to the wildcard `*` pattern.
const pattern = new URLPattern({
  hostname: '{*.}?example.com',
});

console.log(pattern.hostname); // '{*.}?example.com'

console.log(pattern.protocol); // '*'
console.log(pattern.username); // '*'
console.log(pattern.password); // '*'
console.log(pattern.pathname); // '*'
console.log(pattern.search); // '*'
console.log(pattern.hash); // '*'

console.log(pattern.test('https://example.com/foo/bar')); // true

console.log(pattern.test({ hostname: 'cdn.example.com' })); // true

console.log(pattern.test('custom-protocol://example.com/other/path?q=1')); // true

// Prints `false` because the hostname component does not match
console.log(pattern.test('https://cdn-example.com/foo/bar'));
```

### Construct a URLPattern from a full URL string

> The following example shows how a `URLPattern` can be constructed from a full

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to construct a `URLPattern` from a full
```

> URL string with patterns embedded. For example, a `:` can be both the URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL string with embedded patterns. For example, a `:` can be both the URL
```

protocol suffix, like `https:`, and the beginning of a named pattern group, like

> `:foo`. If there is no ambiguity between whether a character is a part of the
> URL syntax or part of the pattern syntax then it just works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`:foo`. It works if there is no ambiguity between whether a character is
part of the URL syntax or part of the pattern syntax.
```

```js
// Construct a URLPattern that matches URLs to CDN servers loading jpg images.
// URL components not explicitly specified, like search and hash here, result
// in the empty string similar to the URL() constructor.
const pattern = new URLPattern('https://cdn-*.example.com/*.jpg');

console.log(pattern.protocol); // 'https'

console.log(pattern.hostname); // 'cdn-*.example.com'

console.log(pattern.pathname); // '/*.jpg'

console.log(pattern.username); // ''
console.log(pattern.password); // ''
console.log(pattern.search); // ''
console.log(pattern.hash); // ''

// Prints `true`
console.log(
    pattern.test("https://cdn-1234.example.com/product/assets/hero.jpg");

// Prints `false` because the search component does not match
console.log(
    pattern.test("https://cdn-1234.example.com/product/assets/hero.jpg?q=1");
```

### Constructing a URLPattern with an ambiguous URL string

> The following example shows how a URLPattern constructed from an ambiguous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how a `URLPattern` constructed from an ambiguous
```

as part of the pattern and therefore determines this is a relative pathname
pattern. Since there is no base URL the relative pathname cannot be resolved and
it throws an error.

```js
// Throws because this is interpreted as a single relative pathname pattern
// with a ":foo" named group and there is no base URL.
const pattern = new URLPattern('data:foo*');
```

### Escaping characters to disambiguate URLPattern constructor strings

The following example shows how an ambiguous constructor string character can be
escaped to be treated as a URL separator instead of a pattern character. Here
`:` is escaped as `\\:`.

```js
// Constructs a URLPattern treating the `:` as the protocol suffix.
const pattern = new URLPattern('data\\:foo*');

console.log(pattern.protocol); // 'data'

console.log(pattern.pathname); // 'foo*'

console.log(pattern.username); // ''
console.log(pattern.password); // ''
console.log(pattern.hostname); // ''
console.log(pattern.port); // ''
console.log(pattern.search); // ''
console.log(pattern.hash); // ''

console.log(pattern.test('data:foobar')); // true
```

### Using base URLs for test() and exec()

> The following example shows how input values to `test()` and `exec()` can use
> base URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how `test()` and `exec()` can use base URLs.
```

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ hostname: 'example.com', pathname: '/foo/*' });

// Prints `true` as the hostname based in the dictionary `baseURL` property
// matches.
console.log(
    pattern.test({ pathname: '/foo/bar', baseURL: 'https://example.com/baz' }));

// Prints `true` as the hostname in the second argument base URL matches.
console.log(pattern.test('/foo/bar', 'https://example.com/baz'));

// Throws because the second argument cannot be passed with a dictionary input.
try {
  pattern.test({ pathname: '/foo/bar' }, 'https://example.com/baz');
} catch (e) {}

// The `exec()` method takes the same arguments as `test()`.

> const result = pattern.exec("/fo'/bar', 'https://example.com/baz');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const result = pattern.exec('/foo/bar', 'https://example.com/baz');
```

console.log(result.pathname.input); // '/foo/bar'

console.log(result.pathname.groups[0]); // 'bar'

console.log(result.hostname.input); // 'example.com'
```

### Using base URLs in the URLPattern constructor

The follow example shows how base URLs can also be used to construct the

> `URLPattern`. It's important to note that the base URL in these cases is treated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`URLPattern`. Note that the base URL in these cases is treated
```

strictly as a URL and cannot contain any pattern syntax itself.

Also, since the base URL provides a value for every component the resulting

> `URLPattern` will also have a value for every component; even if it's the empty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`URLPattern` will also have a value for every component, even if it's the empty
```

used to accessed the matched value in the result object.

```js
// Construct a URLPattern using matching groups with custom names.  These
// names can then be later used to access the matched values in the result
// object.
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/:product/:user/:action' });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: '/store/wanderview/view' });

console.log(result.pathname.groups.product); // 'store'
console.log(result.pathname.groups.user); // 'wanderview'
console.log(result.pathname.groups.action); // 'view'

console.log(result.pathname.input); // '/store/wanderview/view'

console.log(result.inputs); // [{ pathname: '/store/wanderview/view' }]
```

### Custom regular expression groups

The following example shows how a matching group can use a custom regular
expression.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/(foo|bar)' });

console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/foo' })); // true
console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/bar' })); // true
console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/baz' })); // false

const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: '/foo' });

console.log(result.pathname.groups[0]); // 'foo'
```

### Named group with a custom regular expression

> The following example shows how a custom regular expression can be used with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use a custom regular expression with a
```

named group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/:type(foo|bar)' });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: '/foo' });

console.log(result.pathname.groups.type); // 'foo'
```

### Making matching groups optional

> The following example shows how a matching group can be made optional by placing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to make a matching group optional by placing
```

a `?` modifier after it. For the pathname component this also causes any
preceding `/` character to be treated as an optional prefix to the group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/product/(index.html)?' });

console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/product/index.html' })); // true
console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/product' })); // true

const pattern2 = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/product/:action?' });

console.log(pattern2.test({ pathname: '/product/view' })); // true
console.log(pattern2.test({ pathname: '/product' })); // true

// Wildcards can be made optional as well.  This may not seem to make sense
// since they already match the empty string, but it also makes the prefix
// `/` optional in a pathname pattern.
const pattern3 = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/product/*?' });

console.log(pattern3.test({ pathname: '/product/wanderview/view' })); // true
console.log(pattern3.test({ pathname: '/product' })); // true
console.log(pattern3.test({ pathname: '/product/' })); // true
```

### Making matching groups repeated

> The following example shows how a matching group can be made repeated by placing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to repeat a matching group by placing
```

Author: This changes meaning. How about:
> The following example shows how to make a matching group repeating

Author: Actually, the original text is the only correct one. You are not repeating the group, but you are setting the "repeated" modifier on the group.

a `+` modifier after it. In the `pathname` component this also treats the `/`
prefix as special. It is repeated with the group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/product/:action+' });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: '/product/do/some/thing/cool' });

result.pathname.groups.action; // 'do/some/thing/cool'

console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/product' })); // false
```

### Making matching groups optional and repeated

> The following example shows how a matching group can be made both optional and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use a matching group to be both optional and
```

Author: Changes meaning again. Updated to

> The following example shows how to make a matching group that is both optional and repeated

> repeated. This is done by placing a `*` modifier after the group. Again, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repeated. Do this by placing a `*` modifier after the group. Again, the
```

pathname component treats the `/` prefix as special. It both becomes optional
and is also repeated with the group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: '/product/:action*' });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: '/product/do/some/thing/cool' });

console.log(result.pathname.groups.action); // 'do/some/thing/cool'

console.log(pattern.test({ pathname: '/product' })); // true
```

### Using a custom prefix or suffix for an optional or repeated modifier

The following example shows how curly braces can be used to denote a custom
prefix and/or suffix to be operated on by a subsequent `?`, `*`, or `+`
modifier.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ hostname: '{:subdomain.}*example.com' });

console.log(pattern.test({ hostname: 'example.com' })); // true
console.log(pattern.test({ hostname: 'foo.bar.example.com' })); // true
console.log(pattern.test({ hostname: '.example.com' })); // false

const result = pattern.exec({ hostname: 'foo.bar.example.com' });

console.log(result.hostname.groups.subdomain); // 'foo.bar'
```

### Making text optional or repeated without a matching group

The following example shows how curly braces can be used to denote text without

> a matching group can be made optional or repeated without a matching group.

Reviewer: Please look at this sentence again. The second highlighted line doesn't make sense.
